okay it it's call the order time to call
order
Commission meeting
for May 6 20
.4
J three of
[Music]
us see nobody out there in Virtual
land so
I I don't see any reason to change the
order of the agenda
and so skip that uh the
minutes any problem with the minutes a
chance that was fine uh public
comment are improving minutes oh are
improving the minute
soad I'd like to approve the minute okay
January all
[Music]
favor all
rightly public comments you two
gentlemen uh all right so we'll probably
you guys are probably the ones that are
here
strength
uh old business discussion action uh Joe
is on there okay all right all right
well let's start with um the new
business uh perit application
IWC number
2403 Timothy
white for a 101 gillad Road installation
of an overflow pipe that will connect an
existing drainage Bas with an existing
manmade
exp
yep so what's happening now is the water
comes off the road
um into
a
open yeah it's like an
open yeah there you go open Catch Basin
and then there's a little leak off and
it goes into a pipe that drops water
into the plunge pool and there's the way
the water gets from the plung pools the
pond is over the surface but if you
notice I kind of exaggerated
this hump there and what happens the
plung clue floods the entire ring wall
60% 70% around the pus
from the way it's great there's a wall
here that's higher so it's like all the
way around so I want to put in 6 in ads
which is the corrugated pipe but this
would be smooth wall inside so it's what
they use for storm
sewers and set it up pretty high in the
plunge pool so before the plunge pool
starts flooding it'll dump into this and
then and the slope on that pond is
enormous for a small pond it's very long
and gradual so I'll pop out above the
water line I'll do this when the plunge
pool is dry so there won't be any water
and then the other thing I wanted to do
is dig out the sediment in the plunge
pool if the town does get to was talk
Town May deep part of it or whatever
we're not sure um and dig out first
layer of rip wrap that's also build a
sediment put a new layer of rip wrap and
the Pune p and then I'll put some rip
wrap on the outlet end of our overflow
pipe there's already kind of rip wrap
there on SL but I'll beef it up there so
when the energy of the water comes out
it will be able to you know get absorbed
you get a lot of um it over a lot oh
yeah lately everything right but yeah it
does it overflows and you know it really
makes and saturates that whole side yard
what happens out maybe 30 40 50 ft so
it's hard to mow and and if onight it's
really nice looking when there's no
water that donut
almost so that's the
plan chance to go by
there I did not
so I happen to go by there today but
took I I can see that the
plung that that's I don't understand how
how all that got developed in the first
place it seems that it's
just it's a disaster what I see it's
it's to help collect Cent really right
well not so much for plung pool but the
the water going underneath the road in
the first place why didn't they just
need the water around the other side of
the
road yeah well that's was done long
before
I got on the site so I don't know oh
yeah
prob whats to me as a
complete
Mass you need to have some surface
drainage on that side of the road
because of the pitch of the
road and I'm guessing that was the place
the water used to go before pville and
it was probably you know undeveloped
part of the property
you know what I'm saying so this Pond
got put in 20 years ago whatever it was
to take over and trying to make it nice
and work with that
drain you know yeah if I could add yeah
the pond was approved by the W
Commission in 2011 I think it might have
been DG in 2012 so and then I think the
pipe G from that town catch Bas and the
plung pool was permitted in 09 maybe so
they're relatively recent there some
photos in the file that property always
been very wet yeah his whole driveway
was flooding and stuff so I think the
pond was a was a flood control kind of
thing water water storage but I'm not
sure why they didn't affect the road but
affected the yard
yeah then it would run into WS between
the other property neighbor
yeah
I I was looking at the pond and the pond
look like a just a pond for me look like
a spring a what spring yeah spring fed
pond because what I could see from my
car is the pond is completely encased
and even from the picture that we
have it's completely
encased there's no stream coming in
I I don't see an outlet either there got
to be some kind of outlet
somewh but I don't see it I can't compl
see it either on a photo or me sitting
in the car looking so I'm wondering
what I I did roll the windows down and
the place is uh so nice little so you
were welcome to go on the property I
didn't maybe I didn't make that clear
the the owner said you guys could go
walk around and if you want to after
this speeding to check something out
that's fine you just might want to
because if it's a you know it's a
wetland issue I think
because this pipe that you want to put
in there it's going to have the road and
I don't know if you're be well I don't
you I don't know that it's going to be
as as bad as you think because it's only
going to come an operation after it's
been flowing a while so all the oils and
everything on the road should be long G
yeah salt right salts and the whatever I
I don't see it even siment I I really
don't see siment going in here because
if if we're going to overflow by that
time we've just got an abundance of you
know water PL water yeah I mean could it
have some sediment if you took a sample
certainly there's going to be yeah you
know some solid in there but not
like it's not like the side of the road
is heroed either
you
know but you know you've got a small
plunge pool that's been unmaintained for
12 years so and it's got that much s
it's filled yeah it's filled now after
12 years but then if it goes into the P
you
know but what I know parts per million
think it's such a big area for so little
water put I see how we can adversely
affect it but you know obviously that's
a decision you know well I I would just
think that with the would be really
disappointed if he has beautiful little
spring
property
he I think that's all ground
water if you look at that I've been to a
couple of those other properties along
there and it's all well there's like the
houses and then it's just kind of
surrounded so they D down yeah I just
did was dog dig down yeah and pressure
that is really and then I believe
recording in this plan I didn't see it
that there was a there's like a RI WP
outflow that goes into the wetlands
behind would it be worth it to bring the
pictures up because you know when I
looked through the application with
photos I thought the photos were pretty
good maybe there's part of the story
there
that that's the question you know I mean
is a
spring not a spring if it's because it's
been dug into
by you know an escavator and you're down
into the
water that's deep I mean so the water is
coming up from
the down the hill I think through the
ground in there and that's basically
like they dug the pond low enough to be
level with the
weapons over there because it's a
beautiful place birds were all flying in
and out and it's like you know who knows
what's in there I don't know if anybody
wants to know about what's
going the blunch pool of Public
Works things no that was permitted by I
think it was permitted and built by the
previous
homeowner I had talked to Public Works
and he had offered to come in there and
clean it out it sounds like something
that Jay's doing we're
at I see something similar to that a lot
of places where there's this for Grand
SC down it's definitely full set if you
look cuz there's farm field uphill and
across the street so I'm sure you know
you get something on the road you get a
lot that farmfield too
probably yeah it's it's at an angle so
it's going to come that
way and and I no the house beyond that
was the other thing a little concerned
about but after looking at it you can
see that the house Beyond even if some
of this water I you know you think about
how much water so many storms we have
that that pond could actually
breach you know if
it's one of those one in 500 year type
storms which we seem to get every yeah
the I don't know how long the owner's
been there I can't recall but I don't
believe it's breached with
these really bad well now if you put
this pipe in there that going to change
the equation a little bit
um that water level is but but the house
wor see that there's goes up fighting
before it gets to the house the land oh
for the neighbor yeah could be a concern
for him I mean you don't want his
problem than the neighbor's
problem um you know Mi but it's does but
let's say if if this wasn't approved
then could we just grade that and all
that water's going to go to the same
place anyways right yeah it just flow
over lawn
instead so so basically yeah it's going
to end up in the same spot because it's
going to go it's either like the current
situation falls into that pool and it
either infiltrates and Fs into the pond
that way or it pulls over the lawn and
either into the pond or around it into
the Wetland and this way it'll go
through the pond and infiltrate into the
Wetland system there so I mean in a way
use the manade pond as like infiltration
like storm water sing to protect the
natural which is kind
of good deal those build yeah May
decrease his in pond
waterfall so could in that rather than
having it flow across picking up
fertilize when puts on lawn before it
gets to the Wetland
certainly no different than Endo Lake
where every storm drain around the lake
go right into the L yeah that's there's
no sedimentation structur well there
there's a salt okay just a salt but you
know all the salt from the roads and and
all that stuff just washes down into the
lake they salts right they
do got right yeah well we went away from
we used to do sand and salt we went to
just salt so that's what we
got and luckily this past year we didn't
have much of
it but still that's what there that's
what's there everybody's fertilizer and
everything else right down on the
link maybe we could look up one of those
pictures that one that area of his
proper pull it up it should
be he might be really disappointed
if that thing goes Sol you know you can
kill like
that I I I don't see that happening I
mean he I think would rather have a poor
water quality of his pond and not all
the surface water on yeah yeah I get
that that's true
yeah which one is a Joe photoos of
property aerial photo pipe location
photo two
got my screen here but I
don't paper copy too
is that
okay yeah look like you can see the
outlet up in the top right of the is
that it there yeah you can't see like a
depression
there that looks like to me that looks
like cu the Wetland be like
directly kind of in that top right and
then floating off of the off of the
screen there was more Sweatland I think
that where the constru used to be what
to there was different numbers in the
old per I
looking 5000
[Music]
modified
oh thought there was a photo that showed
PL pool in the the pond machine yeah
well it does there is a plunge pool
right there it's just dry yeah right
there right right there you can actually
see the light colors is the the slope
and that dark color is the sediment that
is built up there
yeah so how deep is it right
now oh
not uh maybe yeah it's not not deep it's
not deep and you said full right so I'm
guessing there's probably a good couple
feet of sediment in the middle and then
I'll dig out some of the sediment filled
rip wrap right below that
right it's bone
dry I was like you know
this yeah no it's
quite the pond I mean I think it'd be
difficult for someone to try to walk
down the slope of that pond so steep oh
yeah oh okay I mean here it looks like
it's gentle it's not and we would be
exiting our pipe probably somewhere
halfway to 2/3 of the way up from the
water so it' be exiting relatively high
right CU I'll just have you
know a couple perent pitch on the pipe
so that's it's not
racing out of there and then we'll run
the rip wrap from there down into the
water so you're not actually in the
Wetland you're just in the Upland renew
area here yeah well I don't know exactly
where the Wetland line is but you you
could be right we we won't be disturbing
any or digging in any water and we won't
disturb you I'm conscious to not disturb
anything down slope of where we're
working
I just thought it would be good because
it's discharging directly into a water
water body
so be good for Aion to review this
one and what's the diameter of the pond
about 85 to G
75 it's good it's yeah I think it's yeah
80 here old plan I don't know if that's
it looks
like it's it's it's pretty
big 8T
deep that's what the plan
orig so what we're
seeing yeah because of
no so what happens
is you can't see the
Contour water
sits all around because this SL
up so what happens it'll fill up and
then start spilling over right here but
this will
stay well probably not once we get
right okay I mean you know he's lived
there I'm guessing a handful of years
because I noticed him a lot of work
around the house um and it's bad enough
for him to call me you know what I mean
say I want to do
something
so certainly got a lot more drainage
calls in the past couple of years maybe
because of the circumstances but
I'm kind of surprised
that didn't have an outlet type to begin
with because to me it seems like
it's kind overflow it's not design right
from step one that's the way I look at
it
but I don't have any
question
question just need to make a
motion and then you can vote on it next
next month well that's
what public
comment I gu you you need room for the
public
to weigh in or not for the most part in
Des
yeah the only person that might be
concerned would be the house beond but I
don't really think he has any concern at
all
his he's up he's a lot further than it
looks on that picture yeah pictures will
see for sure especially with Contours
you know like he's down lower think
be what motion do we need tonight
because just to receive that okay it's
not like we can't receive it
either I'll make a motion to receive the
application I wwc
2403 second
so oh
yeah
okay all favor all right close receive
I'll I'll post the the notice and paper
and hopefully we I be here for the next
meeting or there's
uh unless something comes up between now
and then right so you can just
for me to be here all right well thanks
have a good night thank
you
application Ste
Nelson and 14 L View Drive installation
of a 16t by
8ot prefabricated aluminum and composite
do extending into
yeah it's an
L I read it already approved
by included
that
on yeah I'm here I'm just muted we
approved it
stup so that the course of normally they
would approve it first then it comes
here um it depends a lot of people do it
at the same time so we don't have to
approval yet but it's nice that it's on
charge makes it a lot
easier is it just you're replacing
something no there was never a do
there in
ACC but I don't have a dock so makes
it so is the composite the the wood
composite that goes on top of the FR
it's uh it's the
de it's
not it come apart
supposedly four foot by four foot pieces
so one person can
look I mean theoretically when we lower
the water level on Lake it should just
be sitting on the sand but I do needan
to take it out
I how
you on the land
um I really it's just going to have it
sit on the land oh you know there's no
flow
water just
static um the the feet of the dock can
either sit flat on a disc or I could Al
it if I need to have it sit
flat well you might want you might want
to make I'm not sure I don't live on the
way I don't know how bad it
is well that the other end of way SE is
we you know we are on Lake Road there
that uh the wind comes across there
pretty good but I think you you get
shelter yeah it's a little Cove area and
there's an island small island right
next to us very
shter I think probably heavy enough that
the wind isn't going to
blow yeah so just sit there pretty seems
un intrusive
okay no I don't have anything either
I'll make a motion to approve by wwc
2404 we just receive that one too right
that what that we need to receive that
we can't act on enough meeting either I
thought I said what did what did I say I
met to re yeah approve approve okay
we make a to receive application IWC
2401 all
fav that was
it
order
we up to you it seems pretty how are
your
neighor it seems pretty low r
all right thank you good sure thank
you
agent yeah I don't know if you guys saw
I posted the uh pictures of the you went
at the uh um work to extend the utility
strench over there um
is part of that permit they they wanted
to
bring Gas and Electric over to the fire
department thinking all the systems up
and they needed to add some rock and
stuff they kind of went some of the
Public Works took Liberty and then uh
Jay called me over and asked me if it
was okay it was all in the public review
it was
pretty far away you know Reon far away
kind so I I told we could probably we
could just put them modification into
existing it's basically the same project
um I was Dr by you guys um
see I think they did a great job yeah
was getting
under I don't know they probably saw
that because and now filled it all in
they filled it in and put a big Basin in
catch Basin and then even beyond that
they put some rock up against
where the
water run because we get a lot of run
off school the school here parking lots
there's two parking lots
there and he say there continuous SW
water so
he they do
that go there for a
while the town yeah
plus they cut off they cut off all those
U those
uh big monster things
they yeah there are some they remove and
then the one that could
remove so that that one and
then work under the Public Works General
permit to reinforce the rooted area
around the be broke Crossing on Bunker
Hill Road I wrote burn Brook cuz I I
don't know my brain is wor I've confused
that before for some reason too many
views in the town but
uh yeah so I provided some pictures for
that I think they were on the website I
printed them out too want to look at the
before and after they
actually
um I don't know they were they said they
were going to dump a bunch of rock a
little more than I thought
I think all in all kind of if you look
at the the inlet side versus the outlet
side like the amount of road that was
there before um they kind of match now
so it's like they
started supposed to
be did they put any of the you know when
somebody drills a wall FL Lake we asked
for some kind of membrane yeah they did
MBR okay
yeah d a bunch of big rock and fill the
poles that
were is a yeah cuz it flows through
there was pool and then it would kind of
Edy around and it would create like
almost a side eat away bang Under head
wall so they just basically rebuilt that
whole
area now I think this is the first time
you've come to us to discuss anything
that Public Works has done yeah in
accordance with
that yeah there were a few other
like different yeah I can see why yeah
if you compare to Upstream looks like we
the yeah well it's like
giant
made J is heed with that is
that it just helps move things yeah
right good
no I saying we passed that last year
that they didn't have to come to us for
everything and I just wondering if it's
they're happy with that so far I'm a
complain yeah I mean I'm sure they were
so they didn't have to come to yeah you
know how can they not be I know I I my
concern is you know it just in the naked
time because you know I went back the
dates a year ago said we we pass this
thing we' heard nothing nothing right
you know then what what's going on there
has you
there but yeah certainly this was very
clearly covered in the ordinance with
pass so that's good
yeah it's an inkling that it's the
system
working yeah you let me know
about the one over here too like when
you're coming down the
hill thing and then I ask him when I
see few things whatever this was the
first he keep youed this was the
first is he keeping you informed of like
what he's doing yeah as far I know
you yeah catch but I think for the most
part looks like they're going to be
doing some work over on the chy brook uh
Bridge CU they were out there doing some
Drilling and that had that on the head
walls yeah they're starting I think
they're starting the whole process doing
that and they're trying to get funding
for it
and so the budget meeting other night
you talk you're a couple years away from
working that just but we're putting you
know money every year into the the
budget to support that oh yeah yeah
that's in pretty rough shape it is I
went down in there took a look I my dog
down there I down get her
oh be big truck over
there but yeah it looks
bad on the other one might be get soon
at the U The Bunker Hill Crossing for
the hot River
they were talking to me and I thought
they were going to put an application in
for this meeting but they
didn't expect to see that
one real other
business next meeting is Monday June 3rd
make
motion I'll be the
second get any
new people in commission volunteers
[Music]
we spot but I don't know yeah somebody
knew